---
title: Benchmarking Methodology
summary: About what the benchmarks test, and how it is tested.
order: 2
---

!!! danger ""

    Note that this page is still a work in progress.

## What we judged the models on

This benchmark tests models on several parameters in several different scenarios.

### Parameters

!!! note "`function-discovery`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to 'discover' functions from valid function specifications present in the conversation history. This includes function specifications that are written and shared by the user, as well as those generated by the model itself.

!!! note "`function-selection`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able select the correct function(s) from the list of discovered functions to accomplish a certain task. It must not make up functions that do not exist.

!!! note "`parameter-extraction`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to extrapolate appropriate pieces of information from the conversation to use when calling a function.

!!! note "`function-calling`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to produce valid function calls.

!!! note "`output-understanding`"

    &nbsp;The model must make use of the output returned by the function to generate helpful, user-friendly responses to the user's queries.

!!! note "`context-retention`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to use information from the conversation provided by the user or from the output of function calls to make new function calls or respond to new questions.

!!! note "`parallel-calling`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to identify when parallel calling is possible, and produce the correct number of valid function calls when it is. It must support receiving function outputs out of order, and pair function calls and outputs using the `id` property.

!!! note "`missing-functions`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to identify when it does not have access to an appropriate function. It must inform the user about the same.

!!! note "`missing-parameters`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to identify when it does not have any piece of information that it needs to call a function. In such a case, it should not make an assumption unless it was specifically asked to. Instead, it must request a clarification from the user.

!!! note "`error-handling`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to handle errors returned by the function as mentioned in the function's specification. It must understand why the error occurred, and decide on a suitable course of action. For example, it could retry the function call or inform the user about the error.

!!! note "`function-generation`"

    &nbsp;The model must be able to generate function code and specifications and subsequently use that function in the conversation.

!!! note "`constraint-adherence`"

    &nbsp;The model must adhere to arbitrary constraints imposed upon it by the user. For example, if asked not to use a certain function, it should find a way to perform the task without it.

### Scenarios

**Making a simple function call**
<br /><small> `function-discovery` `parameter-extraction` `function-calling` </small>

In this scenario, we provided the model with a single function to call, and a task that included all the necessary information to make use of in conjunction with the provided function. For example,

!!! info "`functions`"

        :::python
        fetch_weather(place)

!!! note "`question`"

    &nbsp;What's the weather like in Pune?

<br /> <hr />

**Selecting the appropriate function**
<br /><small> `function-discovery` `function-selection` `parameter-extraction` `function-calling` </small>

In this scenario, we provided the model with multiple functions that it can call call, and a task that included all the necessary information to make use of in conjunction with one out of the many functions provided to it. For example,

!!! info "`functions`"

        :::python
        fetch_weather(place)
        find_hotels(place)

!!! note "`question`"

    &nbsp;What's the weather in Pune?

<br /> <hr />

**Reasoning on function output**
<br /><small> `function-discovery` `parameter-extraction` `function-calling` `output-understanding` </small>

In this scenario, we provided the model with a single function to call, and a task that included all the necessary information to make use of in conjunction with the provided function. After it completes this task, we ask it a follow up question that requires it to use the output of the function call. For example,

!!! info "`functions`"

        :::python
        fetch_weather(place)

!!! note "`question`"

    &nbsp;What's the weather in Pune?

!!! note "`followup`"

    &nbsp;Do I need an umbrella if I'm going out?

<br /> <hr />

